I wanted to nerd post about a COVID transmission simulator I designed as a final project this semester. It is a 
simulator of COVID aerosol transport that I collaborated with a Finnish scientist on to replicate one of his team's 
simulations in the Python programming language. They got into more complex airflow modeling than I was able 
to explore, using 3D models of grocery stores and a few other public places, managing to calculate a few 
useful parameters about the air in a room that could be applied to the more basic simulation at hand.  
I made a few mechanical adjustments for the switch to a new language, but it produces the same results as
the original. 

What we're looking at are people walking around a large room from above, with healthy infected people
shuffling aimlessly around. The infected cough on cue every 10 minutes (working on randomizing this), and
the healthy accumulate a virus in their body, with some becoming infected after a certain "dose". 

where a few of the people have COVID initially and gradually begin to infect others by coughing/breathing.
(working on making the people cough more randomly as opposed to the really gross flash mob that 
occurs every 10 minutes where every infected person identifies themself with a cough). 

There is very little airflow moving the airborne particles out of the room in the first video, which 
results in a good bit of viral transmission.

When we introduce a bit of ventilation, changing air in the room several times an hour, we see those
numbers going down a good bit. 
From what I understand, the change I made in the second graph, if we scaled down the room size and occupancy, 
to the size of a restaurant, it could be equivalent to opening a few windows. I have quite a bit more
improvements I could make (at the moment its filled with ghosts from hogwarts who float through each other),
but 

looking at a more regularly sized room (with the number of people scaled down as well), it would be about equivalent to opening a window. 
Which can change the air about ??? times an hour. 

Immune system -- myth? 

It all deals with how the airborne particles spread, around our rothe om with no airflow passing through. 
After adding a bit of ventilation, so much more of the airborne virus was removed before it could 
infect anyone else, which we know is how it gets most people. 


I went through a few iterations where I accidentally had the patrons of my 2 dimensional bar 
sucking down way too much virus, but once I fixed their breathing, not as many people were 
infected. 


It all works through diffusion, which is how a substance spreads in a medium, and
ventilation of the virus out of this "room". 

Scientists concluded:
	carries over to real life how:
		How'd the CFD tie in, how valid? (still just looking at MonteCarlo results)
 
(If you want to look at more, I'll post a link in my bio! )  

Dilution and ventilation effects carried over from more complex simulations in the same study.
These were based around 

Opening windows increases the hourly air changes a room gets by a lot! 